# Dynamic-Pricing-Application

The idea is to create a smart service, which can act as a negotiator, for prices of food and drinks in any restaurant – pub, depending on the sales and inventory of that particular item. It will analyze the sales, curent demand, inventory and other parameters like previous orders of that customers. Also, it will decide an acceptance range for a particular item after which the users can place an offer. If the bidding price is within the acceptance range the bid will be accepted or else the bid is rejected and customer will have to quote another price to place an order. The owners will be able to add categories and list of items that are available. There wil be certain items in the menu that will be sold on mrp and bidding for those products wont be permitted. It will also do the order taking and billing from the user app itself, replacing the manual order taking and punching process.

Technology and Software Details
UI implemented using HTML, CSS, JS &amp; React
• Server, Instance &amp; demo link created – Apache Server
 
• Database created in MYSQL
• Following Libraries &amp; Frameworks are installed &amp; linked successfully
a) NODE JS b) Laravel 5 c) Bootstrap d) jQuery

Dynamic pricing is a strategy used by e-commerce and retail businesses that applies variable pricing to the goods and services provided instead of the constant fixed pricing. As more real time data is analyzed, optimal prices for good and services is calculated. The change in price over a period of time depends upon the demand for the goods or services can be as often as every month, or even every day. Dynamic pricing strategy is not a new concept. In the past, pricing has been influenced by demand and supply. Now to have optimized pricing, one can consider several other factors. Dynamic pricing as the name suggests is an automated process that focuses at more than just one or the traditional attributes. Using the data that the business has available for dynamic pricing allows them to improve and obtain faster conversion rates and find optimized pricing that considers both conversion rates and margins. Adjusting the prices to sustain in the competitive environment is essential. The flexible nature of dynamic pricing allows businesses to target specific pricing strategy goals in short period of time.

We designed and implemented a real time price negotiator for drinks and foods in any pub or restaurant depending on sales, previous customer databases, demand and inventory of that particular item. The user can have access to all the features like viewing the menu, cart, placing a bid and order through an application by simply registering to the service. This application thereby reduces manual order taking and punching process offering users an interactive experience at their finger tips making it as an primary order placing component. The application lets the user bid according to the price range and either gets accepted or rejected, if accepted let’s the user checkout with multiple mode of payment which is online through credit/debit card or offline through cash. The application consists of an admin panel where the admin can confirm or reject the orders placed across tables, add categories and their items, view total sale, track users activity, track inventory and accordingly choose a base price (i.e. if the demand is too high of a particular item and the quantity is less) and generate annual reports. With an increase in the number of restaurants and the competition among them it is important to keep up and sustain long, developing such strategies and hence can be implemented in various sectors like retail, entertainment, hospitality and public transports providing goods at flexible prices based on current demands.
Hence the application is a smart bar where customers can interact with a virtual bartender via an Android or iOS APP to bid and order at the lowest possible price and earn loyalty points based on previous order, reedeming into discounts for future orders.

Future Avenues
Our future work intends to enhance by connecting it to a large display where users acceptance and rejection of bids is displayed in a humor and interactive way providing customers power to bargain and enjoy great deals.
The other could be a chatbot, which interacts with the users in real time instead of users placing the bid and ordering items directly. Which attracts more users and help withstand the market competition.
The third could be Integration of AI with the negotiating algorithms analyzing the pattern of every user visiting and accordingly fix base prices of items on a regular basis and offer items at a reasonable less price compared to averages which would also decrease the time complexity making it efficient for multiple users to order at same time without any lag or price errors.
